# Labeling other people

This repository contains code and data for the following paper:

```
@InProceedings{W18-6550,
  author = 	"van Miltenburg, Emiel
		and Elliott, Desmond
		and Vossen, Piek",
  title = 	"Talking about other people: an endless range of possibilities",
  booktitle = 	"Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Natural Language Generation",
  year = 	"2018",
  publisher = 	"Association for Computational Linguistics",
  pages = 	"415--420",
  location = 	"Tilburg University, The Netherlands",
  url = 	"http://aclweb.org/anthology/W18-6550"
}
```

The exact code and data for this paper ([this commit](https://github.com/evanmiltenburg/LabelingPeople/commit/37e4cb653c06227a96aaffbf4d3e47064540cbfa)) is captured as a [release](https://github.com/evanmiltenburg/LabelingPeople/releases).

## Folder structure

There are three folders:

1. `Flickr30K` contains all code and data for the categorization of person labels in Flickr30k-Entities.
2. `VisualGenome` contains code and data for the categorization of attributes from Visual Genome.
3. `Other` contains some additional functions to compute relevant statistics.

## General requirements

The code has been tested with the following software. Results shouldn't be different
for other versions of Python or the NLTK, but this is untested.

* Python 3.6.3
* nltk 3.2.2

## How to use the code

We'll take the Flickr30K data as an example. The general logic is as follows:

* The `resources` folder contains all files with categories, stopwords, etc.
* The grammar is generated by using `python update_grammar.py`. This script takes the resources and compiles a grammar to match the labels with the categories.
* You can check the labels by using `python check_labels.py`. This script checks which labels are covered by the grammar. Labels that are covered are written to `grammatical.txt`. Ungrammatical labels are written to `ungrammatical.txt`. By reading the latter, we can identify (parts of) labels that should be categorized.
* After adding (parts of) labels to the category files in the `resources` folder, run `python update_grammar.py` again.

Then there are two non-essential script files.

* If you want to parse any labels, just import the `analyze_label` function from `label_parser.py`.
* Run `flickr_stats.py` to get some statistics about the original data. Specifically: total number of unique labels classified as PEOPLE; size of the subset of those labels that end in *boy, girl, male, female, woman,* or *man*.
